Let's talk about packaging and uploading charts. We now have our charts built and ready to be
shared with the world. First, we package it, and then we upload it to the online chart repository
so other users can download and install them. So the chart we developed is in the nginx chart
directory with a Chart.yaml, values.yaml, README.md, and the license files and the templates and
chart directories. To package it, run the helm package command. And that's basically it.
This packages the chart into an archive format named nginx chart-0.1.0.tgz. The
version number 0.1.0 is picked from the version within the chart.yaml file.
The .tgz extension points out that this is a tar archive compressed with gzip.
We can open this up with almost any archive manager like, you know, WinRAR in Windows or
7-Zip or any other kind of archive utilities in Linux and so on. Inside, we'll see all the
files and directories that we added to this chart in our exercises neatly grouped together in a
single file that is much easier to move around. So we now have the packaged Helm chart and the
next step is to upload it to a chart repository. However, it is not recommended to just upload this
file as is, we must also consider signing it to make sure users know that the package they are
downloading is legit. Whenever we download stuff from the internet, it's not 100% guaranteed that
what we get is actually what the developer or maintainer uploaded. That's because servers can
be hacked and files can be replaced with malicious content. And one of the ways to make downloads
safer is to cryptographically sign files and packages. For example, in this case, we built
our chart, we know our content is good and safe to use. But how can the users that download our
chart be sure that they get exactly what we built for them, and not some malicious file uploaded by
some hacker? Helm provenance and integrity to the rescue. Once again, Helm provides us with the
necessary tools to fix this. Helm uses a private key that only we, the chart developers, have access
to. And with this key, it produces a digital signature and adds it to what is called a
provenance file. We'll look at that in a bit. Now users download our chart and provenance file and
look for the signature with a public key that they know belongs to us, they can verify if the
chart is correctly signed. If the signature is valid, they know that this chart was manually
signed by us, the chart developers. First, we'll need the private key. And we can generate this
private key and public key pair with the GNU Privacy Guard or GPG utility included by default
in most Linux distributions. And for this purpose of our exercise, we'll choose the quickest method
to generate these files with the command GPG quick-generate-key followed by a name, let's call it
John Smith. If you get a prompt to password protect this, you can just use an empty password
for the sake of simplicity for now. But in a real-world scenario, it's recommended that you use a
strong password to protect your private key. It'll be encrypted with this password. And even if someone
somehow steals your file, they can't use it without the correct password. Now when the keys
have been generated, we'll see an output similar to this. And the pub section at the bottom shows
us the unique identifier of our public key. This could be uploaded to an open PGP key server, like
keyserver.ubuntu.com or something and users would be able to download it by using this unique
identifier, and then verify our signatures. Now, just so you know, in a production environment,
you should use another command to generate your keys and something like the GPG full-generate-key
would be better since it asks you for more details. And you can fine-tune cryptographic
settings, expiration dates, set an email address associated with the key and so on.
Most Linux distributions nowadays use GNU PG v2, which stores keys in a different format than the
previous version. To sign charts Helm currently prefers the older format, we can convert the new
secret keyring format to the old format and store it in a file called secring.gpg with the
following command. GPG export secret keys, and then redirected to secret.gpg file.
Now that we have the key ready, we package it again using the same helm package command,
but with the sign option and by passing in the key that we created in the previous step,
the key parameter expects to receive either the full name that we associated with our key
or the email address. If we ever forget these details, we can list key details with the command
GPG list keys like this. Now previously, when we packaged our chart without signing it,
the nginx chart.tgz file was generated. But also signing an additional file is generated
called the provenance file. In our case, this will be stored in the nginx.tgz.
PROV extension. If you look inside this file, its contents look similar to this. Now this
file basically tells us that the file nginx chart-0.1.0.tgz should have this exact
sha256 hash. So if we run the sha256sum with this file, we'll see that indeed this hash
is an exact match. So if we change even one byte in the whole file, the hash would change entirely.
So this tells us that this file is exactly the one that the provenance file tells us we should
have. But the provenance file has been downloaded from the internet too. So maybe a hacker just
generated a corrupted nginx dot TGC file, and then edited the provenance and then switching
the hash of the genuine file with the hash of their corrupted file. However, the BEGIN PGP
signature section at the top is where the real magic happens. This is a signature for the entire
provenance file saying something like this. I John Smith, the owner of public key, so and so
have signed the entire contents of this file. And you can rest assured that the hash you see here
is the correct one. If you can verify the signature with my public key, and it is valid.
So now the hash in the file cannot be changed as that would invalidate the signature,
and the attacker cannot produce a signature that could be verified with your public key.
So when uploading your chart to some online repository, you should copy both the TGC
chart archive and also the TGC.prov.provenance file. And we'll see how to do that
in the next lesson. So when users have both of these files available, they can verify the
integrity of the chart with the helm verify command with GPG v2. This will also complain
because the newer GPG tool stores public keys in the newer format in the pubring.kbx file
instead of the older pubring.gpg file that helm expects. So as a quick workaround, just so
we're able to see how verify in action we can do this, we export our public key to a file called
my public key, and then use helm verify command again, but also point helm to the location of
the public key that can be used to verify the signature. In a real scenario, our chart users
would first download our public key with a command like this. And only afterwards, they'd be able to
use a helm verify command. So this assumes that we first uploaded our public key to the keyserver
dot ubuntu.com key server. Now the verification phase can also be integrated into regular helm
commands that we use so far, for example, to verify when we download a chart from the internet,
or when installing a chart, we just add the --verify parameter to our commands.
Now, of course, if the verification of signature fails,
the install phase is abandoned. So we don't install charts that we can't trust.
Well, that's all for now about packaging and signing charts. And in the next video,
we'll talk about uploading charts.